Documentation for Azure Application Code Assessment Tool (#37523)
dotnet/docs: docs/azure/migration/appcat/visual-studio.md

---
title: Use Azure Migrate application and code assessment for .NET with Visual Studio
description: Learn how to assess .NET applications to evaluate their readiness to migrate to Azure with Visual Studio.
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 11/09/2023
author: codemillmatt
ms.author: masoucou
---

> # Analyze projects with Visual Studio

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Analyze applications with Visual Studio
```

Azure Migrate application and code assessment for .NET is a tool to assess .NET source code to identify replatforming and migration opportunities to Azure. It helps you modernize and replatform large-scale .NET applications through a broad range of transformations, use cases, and code patterns.

This guide describes how to use the application and code assessment Visual Studio extension to both scan and interpret the results of the scan.

If you have not installed the Visual Studio extension, please follow [these instructions first](./install.md).

## Scan your application

The application and code assessment lets you decide which projects in your solution to scan to identify migration opportunities to Azure. Follow these steps to scan your application.

1. Open the solution containing the projects you want to migrate to Azure in Visual Studio 2022.

> 1. Right click on any of the projects in the Solution Explorer window and select **Replatform to Azure**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Right click on any of the projects in the Solution Explorer window and select **Re-platform to Azure**.
```

>     ![Screenshot of the replatform to Azure menu item in Visual Studio](./media/vs/replatform.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ![Screenshot of the re-platform to Azure menu item in Visual Studio](./media/vs/replatform.png)
```

---
title: Use Azure Migrate application and code assessment for .NET with Visual Studio
description: Learn how to assess .NET applications to evaluate their readiness to migrate to Azure with Visual Studio.
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 11/09/2023
author: codemillmatt
ms.author: masoucou
---

# Analyze applications with Visual Studio

> Azure Migrate application and code assessment for .NET is a tool to assess .NET source code to identify replatforming and migration opportunities to Azure. It helps you modernize and replatform large-scale .NET applications through a broad range of transformations, use cases, and code patterns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Azure Migrate application and code assessment for .NET helps you to identify any issues your application might have when it is ported to Azure and improve the performance, scalability and security by suggesting modern, cloud-native solutions.
```

> This guide describes how to use the application and code assessment Visual Studio extension to both scan and interpret the results of the scan.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide describes how to use the application and code assessment Visual Studio extension to scan your application.
```

> This guide describes how to use the application and code assessment Visual Studio extension to both scan and interpret the results of the scan.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tool is available as a Visual Studio extension and a [CLI tool](./dotnet-cli.md).

This guide describes how to use the CLI tool to scan your application for possible incompatibilities with Azure.
```

If you have not installed the Visual Studio extension, please follow [these instructions first](./install.md).

## Scan your application

The application and code assessment lets you decide which projects in your solution to scan to identify migration opportunities to Azure. Follow these steps to scan your application.

1. Open the solution containing the projects you want to migrate to Azure in Visual Studio 2022.

> 1. Right click on any of the projects in the Solution Explorer window and select **Re-platform to Azure**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Right-click on any of the projects in the Solution Explorer window and select **Re-platform to Azure**.
```

    ![Screenshot of the re-platform to Azure menu item in Visual Studio](./media/vs/replatform.png)
1. The utility will start and give you the option to start a new analysis report or open an existing one. It will also display any recent analysis reports.
    ![Screenshot showing the recent analysis reports](./media/vs/appcat-start-screen.png)

> 1. Click on **New report** and it will display the projects in your solution in a treeview. It will give you an option to select which projects to analyze. You fill find projects pre-selected for you that are most likely to have compatibility issues. You can change the selection by checking or unchecking the boxes next to the projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click on **New report** and it will display the projects in your solution in a treeview. It will give you an option to select which projects to analyze. You will find web projects pre-selected for you and you can change the selection by checking or unchecking the boxes next to the projects.
```

    ![Screenshot showing the projects in the solution](./media/vs/analyze-project-selection.png)
1. Click the **Next** button and you'll be presented with the option to analyze **Source code and settings**, **Binary dependencies**, or both.
    ![Screenshot of the product component selection screen](./media/vs/analyze-project-component-selection.png)
    > [!NOTE]

>     > The **source code and settings** option will only scan the source code in the projects you selected on the previous screen. The **Binary dependencies** option will scan any dependencies (such as NuGet packages) your projects rely on. You can expect to see many more issues identified when **binary dependencies** is selected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > The **source code and settings** option will only scan the source code in the projects you selected on the previous screen. The **Binary dependencies** option will scan any dependencies (such as NuGet packages or referenced dlls) your projects rely on. You can expect to see many more issues identified when **binary dependencies** is selected.
```

>     > You should consider selecting only **source code and settings** first to figure out what issues reside in your code and fix those before runnig the **binary dependencies** scan.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > Scanning binaries can be valuable because the issues detected may identify potential problem in dependencies, but also might not be as useful because source code is not available for these dependencies, so the issues can't be fixed and, in the case of potential issues, it may not be an issues in your case.

> It might be helpful to generate two different reports: for action items and for your awareness.
```

    >

1. Click the **Analyze** button to start the scan. The selected projects are scanned to look for potential issues when migrating to Azure. When finished, you'll see a dashboard of results.
  ![Screenshot showing the results of the scan](./media/vs/analyze-results.png)

## Next steps

> ### Application and code assessment for .NET CLI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Interpreting results
```

> For information on how to intepret results, see [Interpret the analysis results from the Azure Migrate application and code assessment for .NET](./interpret-results.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For information on how to interpret results, see [Interpret the analysis results from the Azure Migrate application and code assessment for .NET](./interpret-results.md).
```

> For information on how to use the Azure Migrate application and code assessment for .NET with the .NET CLI, see [Use with the .NET CLI](./dotnet-cli.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
